1.JSP:JSP technology is used to create web application just like Servlet technology. It can be thought of as an extension to Servlet 
because it provides more functionality than servlet such as expression language, JSTL, etc.

A JSP page consists of HTML tags and JSP tags. The JSP pages are easier to maintain than Servlet because we can separate designing
and development. It provides some additional features such as Expression Language, Custom Tags, etc.

Advantages of JSP over Servlet
1) Extension to Servlet
2) Easy to maintain
3) Fast Development: No need to recompile and redeploy
4) Less code than Servlet


2.The Lifecycle of a JSP Page
Translation of JSP Page
Compilation of JSP Page
Classloading (the classloader loads class file)
Instantiation (Object of the Generated Servlet is created).
Initialization ( the container invokes jspInit() method).
Request processing ( the container invokes _jspService() method).
Destroy ( the container invokes jspDestroy() method).

3.How to run a simple JSP Page?
Start the server
Put the JSP file in a folder and deploy on the server
Visit the browser by the URL http://localhost:portno/contextRoot/jspfile, for example, http://localhost:8888/myapplication/index.jsp


4.The Directory structure of JSP
Web-app,
web-info

5.The JSP API consists of two packages:

javax.servlet.jsp
javax.servlet.jsp.tagext

6.scriptlet tag: 
The jsp scriptlet tag can only declare variables not methods.
In JSP, java code can be written inside the jsp page using the scriptlet tag. Let's see what are the scripting elements first.

Expression tag:
The code placed within JSP expression tag is written to the output stream of the response. So you need not write out.print() to write data. 
It is mainly used to print the values of variable or method.
getInstance() method.

Declaration tag:
The JSP declaration tag is used to declare fields and methods.
The code written inside the jsp declaration tag is placed outside the service() method of auto generated servlet.
So it doesn't get memory at each request.

Exception Handling in JSP:
The exception is normally an object that is thrown at runtime. 
Exception Handling is the process to handle the runtime errors. There may occur exception any time in your web application. 
So handling exceptions is a safer side for the web developer. In JSP, there are two ways to perform exception handling:

By errorPage and isErrorPage attributes of page directive
By <error-page> element in web.xml file


7.Action tag:
jsp:forward
The jsp:forward action tag is used to forward the request to another resource it may be jsp, html or another resource.

jsp:include
The jsp:include action tag is used to include the content of another resource it may be jsp, html or servlet.
The jsp include action tag includes the resource at request time so it is better for dynamic pages because there might be changes in future.
The jsp:include tag can be used to include static as well as dynamic pages.

jsp:bean class:
It should have a no-arg constructor.
It should be Serializable.
It should provide methods to set and get the values of the properties, known as getter and setter methods.

custom tag:Custom tags are user-defined tags. They eliminates the possibility of scriptlet tag and separates the business logic from the 
JSP page.

The same business logic can be used many times by the use of custom tag.